---
title: "December 2022 - Winter Break"
date: "2022-12-16"
exerpt: "My plans for my sophomore year winter break"
tag: "Update"
---

# First Update

Hello, this is the first life update I will write. I spent the last couple of hours making my site a lot nicer, and this is a nice feature to have. Every so often (around once a month), I will write a life update. The main reasoning behind this feature is to allow a cool way to both simultaneously document my progress and update my parents on life events.

## Winter Break Plans

My plans for winter break mainly comprise studying. There are 5 weeks of my break and I plan to put it to good use.

I have already gone over my previous machine-learning knowledge and more. Went over important concepts like loss and activation functions, regularization, normalization, optimization, hyperparameter tuning, weight initialization, etc. along with all the important model architectures such as Convolutional Neural Networks (and variants), Recurrent Neural Networks (and variants), Autoencoders, Sequence Models, and Transformers (and variants). Now I'm going through and implementing each in PyTorch to understand the models and the library at a much higher level of detail.

In the 4 remaining weeks, I plan to go through a wide variety of research papers to reinforce my foundations and to contact professors about research next semester. There are a few professors doing research in areas that I'm interested in and will be reading some of the papers their research group has published to be more knowledgeable for when I do ask about doing research next semester.

## Post-Semester Thoughts

Now that I have survived my first semester back, semesters going forward should be much easier. I have iterated and vastly improved my note-taking and studying abilities and have gotten most of the harder classes out of the way, so I expect to have an easier time going forward (with next semester being the exception with 16-19 credit hours and OS, which is 20-30 hours of work a week in of itself). More free time leaves me more time to focus on extracurricular activities like research and personal projects.

In terms of my current thoughts and plans, I am mainly looking at grad school right now. My time in the startup space has made me completely disinterested in startups for the time being. The ingredients for a successful startup are deep domain-specific knowledge, wide technical competency, good networks, and passion for a specific problem, and I map to [.2, .5, .8, .1] for each respectively. Being an opportunist is the other way, which was what category I fell into, but such people rely on external factors to open up opportunity instead of their own competency. Perhaps in 5-10 years when I can stand on my two feet, but there is much for me to learn between then and now.

For a short bit thought I was interested in doing quant/finance. I do find the space interesting but there are just many more interesting things going on like what's going on with Machine Learning. Machine Learning was what originally got me into programming in general back in high school. For a vast amount of reasons, I will be focusing on ML, and the clear path is pursuing a Ph.D. As of writing this, I have 2 years to do as much undergraduate research as possible to maximize my chances of getting into a top-tier Ph.D. program. With the most important criteria, these programs look at being research, I will mainly be looking into doing research full-time over the summer. I believe if I throw my full attention and focus into research, I should be competent and industrious enough to be able to produce good work which should get me into a decent program and plenty of research jobs/internship opportunities, money should be less of an issue after this year.
